in this video let us learn how to implement the
isconnected operation as we discussed earlier
The is connected function will tell whether two nodes are
connected or not
So how to check Whether two nodes are connected or
not it is very simple
If both the node has the same parent they are
connected to each other
If the parents are different they are not connected to
each other
Let us take the previously created disjoint set and
performed the isConnected operation
Now let us check whether the Element seven and nine
are connected or not
So is connected of seven comma nine
First let's find the parent of elements
Seven
So go to index seven and check
Its value
It has postive value four which means it is
not a parent node and it is connected with Element
four so go to index four and check its value
It has negative value minus six which means it is
a parent node
so parent of Elements seven is full
Now let's find the parent of Element nine
At index nine we have negative value minus one so
Element nine itself is a parent node so parent of
Element nine
is nine here
Parent node of Elements seven is four and parent node
of element
9 is nine and they are different so we can
say elements seven and nine are not connected to each
other
Now let us take one more example
Let us check whether the elements two and seven are
connected or not so we have is connected of two
and seven
First let's find the parent of Element two at index
two we have positive value
Eight
So it is not a parent node
So go to index eight and check its value at
index eight
We also have positive value
Three
So it is also not a parent node
So go to index three and check its value it
has valued four
So it is also not a parent node
goto index four and check its value
It has value minus six
Since it has a negative value
It is a parent node
So the parent node of Element two is four
Now let us find the parent node of elements seven
At index seven we have the positive number four so
go to index four and check its value
It has negative value minus six
So it is a parent node
So the parent node of elements seven is four here
Both the elements has the same parent so we can
say that they are connected to each other
That's it the larger case very simple
Find the parent node of each element
If they are equal return true if they are not
equal return false solid as quickly implement
the logic first let us write the function named isConnected
which takes three arguments The set array arr index of first
Element U index of second element
V so is connected of int arr int U and int V
This function will return the boolean result so write it's
written type as bool
Next we need to find the parent node of each
element
So write int parent of U equal to find of
arr coma U and int parent of V equal to find
of arr comma V the find function will return the parent
node of both U and V
Now we need to check both indices are
equal or not so write
If parent of U equal to parent of V if
they are equal they're connected to each other so we
need to return
True
So write
Returned true
Otherwise we need to return false
So finally write Return false
That's it
So this is all about is connected function and
disjoint set data structure
In the coming videos we will learn how to detect
the cycle in an undirected graph using disjoint set.